.TH HANDLER_ADD 3 2023-09-13 0.1.0 "slweb Library Reference"

.SH NAME
handler_add \- add an endpoint to a web server handler object

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <slweb/handler.h>
.P
int handler_add(struct handler *\fIh\fP, const char *\fIurl\fP, enum http_op \fIop\fP, handler_fn \fIf\fP, void *\fIuser\fP);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR handler_add ()
function adds an endpoint to a
.I struct handler
object previously allocated by
.IR handler_alloc (3),
pointed to by
.IR h .

.I url
is a null-terminated string that defines the target resource. The
metacharacter
.B *
can be used to match any number of characters. For example,
.B "/user/*/file"
shall match resources such as
.B /user/alice/file
or
.BR /user/bob/nested/file .

.I op
describes the HTTP/1.1 operation supported by the endpoint. See the
definition for
.I "enum http_op"
for an exhaustive list of supported operations.

.I f
is a function pointer that shall be executed by
.I slweb
if an incoming request matches the resource and operation defined by
.I url
and
.IR op ,
respectively. See
.IR slweb_handler (7)
for the definition for
.IR handler_fn .

.I user
is an opaque pointer to a user-defined object that shall be passed to
the function pointed to by
.IR f .
.I user
can be a null pointer.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, a negative integer is returned,
and
.I errno
might be set by the internal calls to
.IR realloc (3)
or
.IR strdup (3).

.SH ERRORS
Refer to
.IR malloc (3)
and
.IR strdup (3)
for a list of possible errors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR handler_alloc (3),
.BR handler_free (3),
.BR handler_listen (3),
.BR slweb_handler (7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2023 Xavier Del Campo Romero.
.P
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
