.TH HTML_NODE_ALLOC 3 2023-09-15 0.1.0 "slweb Library Reference"

.SH NAME
html_node_alloc \- allocate a HTML node

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <slweb/html.h>
.P
struct html_node *html_node_alloc(const char *\fIelement\fP);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR html_node_alloc (3)
function allocates a
.I "struct html_node"
object, which represents a node in a HTML tree.
.I element
is the name of the HTML tag.

.I "struct html_node"
is an opaque object internal to
.I slweb
and therefore is not accessible to callers.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, an opaque pointer to a
.I struct html_node
object is returned. On error,
a null pointer is returned, and
.I errno
might be set by the internal call to
.IR malloc (3).

.SH ERRORS
Refer to
.IR malloc (3)
for a list of possible errors.

.SH EXAMPLE
A
.I struct html_node
object with
.B example
as
.I element
with no attributes or value would be translated by the HTML serializer
to
.BR <example/> .

.SH NOTES
Typically,
.IR html_node_alloc (3)
is used to allocate the root node, whereas children can be appended to
it via
.IR html_node_add_child (3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html_node_free (3),
.BR html_node_set_value (3),
.BR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3),
.BR html_node_add_attr (3),
.BR html_node_add_child (3),
.BR html_node_add_sibling (3),
.BR slweb_html (7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2023 Xavier Del Campo Romero.
.P
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
