.TH HTML_NODE_ADD_CHILD 3 2023-09-25 0.1.0 "libweb Library Reference"

.SH NAME
html_node_add_child \- add child to a HTML node

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <libweb/html.h>
.P
struct html_node *html_node_add_child(struct html_node *\fIn\fP, const char *\fIelem\fP);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR html_node_add_child (3)
function allocates a child
.I struct html_node
object into another
.I struct html_node
object, previously allocated by a call to
.IR html_node_alloc (3)
or
.IR html_node_add_child (3),
and pointed to by
.IR n .
The tag name for the child node is defined by
.IR elem .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.IR html_node_add_child (3)
returns zero. On failure, a negative integer is returned.

.SH EXAMPLE

The following example shall print a tree structure with a root node
and one child node:

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
#include <dynstr.h>
#include <libweb/html.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main(void)
{
    int ret = EXIT_FAILURE;
    struct html_node *const root = html_node_alloc("root"), *child;
    struct dynstr d;

    dynstr_init(&d);

    if (!root)
    {
        fprintf(stderr, "html_node_alloc failed\en");
        goto end;
    }
    else if (!(child = html_node_add_child(root, "child")))
    {
        fprintf(stderr, "html_node_add_child failed\en");
        goto end;
    }
    else if (html_serialize(root, &d))
    {
        fprintf(stderr, "html_serialize failed\en");
        goto end;
    }

    printf("%s", d.str);
    ret = EXIT_SUCCESS;

end:
    html_node_free(root);
    dynstr_free(&d);
    return ret;
}
.EE
.in
.PP

The following results shall be written to the standard output:

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
<root>
    <child/>
</root>
.EE
.in
.PP

.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.

.SH NOTES
Adding a child to an existing
.I struct html_node
object is an atomic operation, which means no changes are applied to it
if
.IR html_node_add_child (3)
fails.

Internally,
.I libweb
calls
.IR html_node_add_sibling (3)
from a child node when a node already has one.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html_node_alloc (3),
.BR html_node_add_sibling (3),
.BR libweb_http (7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2023 Xavier Del Campo Romero.
.P
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
