.TH HTML_NODE_ADD_ATTR 3 2023-09-24 0.1.0 "libweb Library Reference"

.SH NAME
html_node_add_attr \- add attribute to a HTML node

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <libweb/html.h>
.P
int html_node_add_attr(struct html_node *\fIn\fP, const char *\fIattr\fP, const char *\fIval\fP);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR html_node_add_attr (3)
function adds an attribute to a
.I struct html_node
object pointed to by
.IR n ,
previously returned by
.IR html_node_alloc (3)
or
.IR html_node_add_child (3).
.I attr
is a null-terminated string with the name of the attribute.
.I val
is a null-terminated string with the value for the attribute.

.I libweb
allocates copies of the null-terminated strings defined by
.I attr
and
.IR val .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.IR html_node_add_attr (3)
returns zero. On failure, a negative integer is returned.

.SH EXAMPLE
A
.I struct html_node
object with
.B example
as tag name, no value and
.B name
as its attribute with value
.B john
would be translated by the HTML
serializer to:

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
<example name="john"/>
.EE
.in
.PP

.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html_node_alloc (3),
.BR html_node_free (3),
.BR html_node_set_value (3),
.BR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3),
.BR libweb_http (7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2023 Xavier Del Campo Romero.
.P
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
