.TH HTML_NODE_SET_VALUE_UNESCAPED 3 2023-09-24 0.1.0 "slweb Library Reference"

.SH NAME
html_node_set_value_unescaped \- set value to a HTML node

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <slweb/html.h>
.P
int html_node_set_value_unescaped(struct html_node *\fIn\fP, const char *\fIval\fP);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3)
function sets a value to a
.I struct html_node
object pointed to by
.IR n ,
previously returned by
.IR html_node_alloc (3)
or
.IR html_node_add_child (3).
.I val
is a null-terminated string with the value to be assigned to the node.

.I slweb
allocates a copy of the null-terminated string defined by
.IR val .

As opposed to
.IR html_node_set_value (3),
.IR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3)
does not escape characters that could case syntax errors, such as
.BR <
.BR "" ( "LESS-THAN SIGN" ).
This might make
.IR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3)
interesting to insert serialized HTML nodes as a value.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.IR html_node_set_value_unescaped (3)
returns zero. On failure, a negative integer is returned.

.SH EXAMPLE
A
.I struct html_node
object with
.B example
as tag name and
.B hello
as its value and no attributes would be translated by the HTML
serializer to:

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
<example>hello</example>
.EE
.in
.PP

.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR html_node_alloc (3),
.BR html_node_free (3),
.BR html_node_set_value (3),
.BR html_node_add_attr (3),
.BR slweb_http (7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2023 Xavier Del Campo Romero.
.P
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
